# Change Log #

## 0.24.0 - 2024-01-09

* Added the `is_anycast` field to the `Traits` struct. Pull request
  by Skye. GitHub #73.

## 0.23.0 - 2022-04-03

* Added `lookup_prefix` to return the prefix length for the network
  associated with the IP address. Pull request by  Marek Vavruša.
  GitHub #26.

## 0.22.0 - 2022-03-23

* A `within` method has been added to the reader to allow iterating
  over all records in the database. Pull request by Ross McFarland.
  Github #50.
* Database structs in `maxminddb::geoip2` have been updated. Most
  noticeably, an `Enterprise` struct has been added and the `model`
  module has been replaced by `city` and `country` modules. Also,
  several missing fields have been added.
* `Mmap` is now re-exported for convenience. Pull request by zhuhaow.
  GitHub #54.
* Upgraded memmap2 dependency.

## 0.21.0 - 2021-07-20

* Reduce the amount of code generated by shrinking generic methods.
  Pull request by Markus Westerlind. GitHub #49.

## 0.20.0 - 2021-07-11

* Use `try_into` when decoding floating point values. Pull request
  by Sebastian Mayr. GitHub #47.

## 0.19.0 - 2021-06-25

* Switch from `memmap` to `memmap2`. Pull request by Gleb Pomykalov.
  GitHub #46.

## 0.18.0 - 2021-05-29

* The `memchr` crate is now used to improve the performance of finding
  the metadata start. Pull request by Markus Westerlind. GitHub #44.

## 0.17.3 - 2021-05-29

* Correct handling of pointers in the database metadata section. This
  bug caused the latest GeoIP2 ISP database from MaxMind to fail to
  load with an `InvalidDatabaseError` due to an invalid data type.
  Reported by Marwes-Imperva. GitHub #45.

## 0.17.2 - 2021-02-11

* Minor cleanup.

## 0.17.1 - 2021-01-03

* Restore compatibility with targets that don't support 128-bit integers.
  Pull request by Filip. GitHub #41.

## 0.17.0 - 2020-12-12

* Unsigned 128-bit integers are now decoded to a `u128` rather than a
  `[u8]`. Pull request by moschroe. GitHub #40.

## 0.16.0 - 2020-12-05

* This release includes major performance improvements and code cleanup.
  Pull request by Sebastian Mayr. GitHub #37.

## 0.15.0 - 2020-10-10

* Remove crate options leftover from before Rust 1.0. In particular,
  this crate no longer specifies `crate_type`. This should allow you to
  compile it with `panic = "abort"`. Reported by ye2020. GitHub #33.

## 0.14.0 - 2020-06-07

* BREAKING CHANGE: All Strings in the `geoip2` structs are not returned
  as references. This was done to provide a significant performance
  improvement when ownership is not needed. Pull request by Matthew Wynn.
  GitHub #31.
* A new opt-in feature, `unsafe-str-decode`, has been added that will
  skip UTF-8 validation when decoding strings. You should only use this
  when you trust that the MaxMind DB is valid and contains valid UTF-8
  strings. This provides a modest performance improvement. Pull request
  by Matthew Wynn. GitHub #31.
* Many other internal improvements to reduce the number of allocations.

## 0.13.0 - 2019-01-21

* Missing models for `DensityIncome`, `Domain`, and `Asn` were added
  and the missing `is_in_european_union` field was added to the
  `Country` model. Pull request by Sebastian Nadorp. GitHub #19.
* More details are now included in the `Display` implementation for
  `MaxMindDBError`. Pull request by Mike Cooper. GitHub #20.

## 0.12.0 - 2018-12-09

* `Reader::open` has been removed. You should use `Reader::open_readfile`
  or `Reader::open_mmap`. Pull request by kpcyrd. GitHub #17 & #18.
* `Reader::open_readfile` no longer depends on `unsafe`. Pull request by
  kpcyrd. GitHub #17 & #18.

## 0.11.0 - 2018-11-12

* An optional `mmap` cfg feature flag has been added. When set, `open`
  will use the `memmap` crate to memory map the database file rather
  than reading it from file. In addition to `open`, `open_readfile`
  and `open_mmap` are available. PR by moschroe. GitHub #16.
* `Reader::open` now takes an `AsRef<Path>`. Also, #16.
* `Reader::from_buf` allows using an existing buffer instead of
  specifying a database file. PR by kpcyrd. GitHub #15.

## 0.10.0 - 2018-08-07

* Derive `Serialize` for GeoIP2 models. Pull request by Bryan Gilbert.
  GitHub #11.

## 0.9.0 - 2018-02-16

* Update logger to 0.4 and env_logger to 0.5.

## 0.8.1 - 2017-07-02

* Implement unimplemented deserialize methods.

## 0.8.0 - 2017-06-28

* API CHANGE: Switch to Serde for deserialization. Data structures being
  deserialized to must implement the `Deserialize` trait. Pull request by
  Wesley Moore. GitHub #5.

## 0.7.2 - 2017-04-16

* Update `log` to 0.3.7 and `rustc-serialize` to 0.3.23.

## 0.7.1 - 2016-11-13

* Update `rustc-serialize` to 0.3.21.

## 0.7.0 - 2016-05-15

* API CHANGE: `lookup` takes an `IpAddr` again instead of a `SocketAddr`. We
  previously switched to `SocketAddr` after `IpAddr` had been deprecated, but
  it has since been re-added.
